Add "Sort by Server Channel" to mixer view (#1060)
jamulussoftware/jamulussoftware.github.io: wiki/en/Software-Manual.md

Opens the chat window. Text entered is sent to
all connected Clients. If a new chat message arrives and the Chat dialogue is not already open, it will

> open automatically for all Clients. See Settings to optionally turn on a sound alert when a new chat message is received.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
open automatically for all Clients. See Settings to optionally turn on a sound alert when a new chat message arrives.
```

If you see a "mute" icon above a user, it means that person cannot hear you. Either they have muted you, soloed one or more users not including you, or have set your fader in their mix to zero.

Users usually appear left-to-right in the order that they connect. When joining a server that already has participants, the default order depends

> on the versions of Jamulus at the client and the server. With a client version before 3.12.0 or a server version older than 3.5.5, the existing participants will be shown before

Author: Will splitting up mid-sentence make translations harder?

Reviewer 2: Don't know, but it wasn't intentional. I can join the lines.

If you see a "mute" icon above a user, it means that person cannot hear you. Either they have muted you, soloed one or more users not including you, or have set your fader in their mix to zero.

> Users usually appear left-to-right in the order that they connect. You can sort instead by name, instrument, group, or city using the View menu.

Author: Moved to be an entry under the "Menu commands" section.

### Mute button

Prevents users being heard in your local mix. Be aware that when you mute someone, they will see a "muted" icon above your fader to indicate that you cannot hear them. Note also that you will continue to see their VU meters moving if sound from the muted user is reaching the server. Your fader position for them is also unaffected.

Note that muting your **own** channel only means you will not hear your signal from the server (and is not advised as it can lead to you becoming out of time with other players). This is therefore not the same as using "[Mute Myself](#mute-myself-button)".

### Solo button

Allows you to hear one or more users on their own. Those not soloed will be muted. Note also that those people who are not soloed will see a "muted" icon above your fader.

## Menu commands

### File > Connection Setup...

> Opens the [connection dialogue (see above)](#connectdisconnect-button).

Reviewer 3: Are we consistent with dialogue vs dialog?

Author: Between the two places, yes.  I didn't check the whole of the wiki.  (Personally, if we're talking about UI widgets like "dialog", I think we should use the technical term rather than a British English word meaning communication between people.)

### File > Load/Save Mixer Channels Setup

> You can save and restore the mix you have for your band rehearsals (fader, mute, pan, solo etc.) and load these any time (even while you are playing). Loading can also be done by drag/drop to the mixer window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can save and restore the mix you have for your band. This stores your settings for each person's fader volume, pan setting, mute and solo state. You can load this mix any time (even while you are playing). Loading can also be done by drag/drop to the mixer window.
```

Reviewer: Is there more to what's stored? The "etc." alluded to here?

Reviewer 2: I don't think so. Probably just future-proof language!

### File > Exit

Closes all the windows and exits the application.

### Edit > Clear All Stored Solo/Mute Settings

> Whenever you Solo or Mute a channel, Jamulus stores the settings against them, so that if they leave and rejoin - or you join a server where they are playing - the settings will automatically be applied.  If you want clear _all_ stored settings, you can do it here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whenever you Solo or Mute a channel, Jamulus remembers these settings. Even if that person leaves and rejoins - or you join a server where they are playing - the settings will automatically be applied.  Use this command to clear _all_ these stored settings.
```

### Edit > Set All Faders to New Client Level

Applies the [configured "New Client Level"](#new-client-level) to all currently connected channels.

### Edit > Auto-Adjust All Faders

> Applies a one-off fader setting to each channel depending on its volume. Useful for large ensembles to get a reasonable overall mix, although individual adjustments might still be necessary. Best applied during a warm-up or a uniform part of the music piece.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Applies a one-off fader adjustment to each channel depending on its volume. Useful for large ensembles to get a reasonable overall mix, although individual adjustments might still be necessary. Best applied during a warm-up or a uniform part of the music piece.
```

### View > (sort options)

Most items under the "View" menu allow you to adjust the order Jamulus chooses to display channels on the server:
* Own Fader First<br/>
This option can be used in addition to the others to move your own channel to always be the leftmost.

* No user sorting<br/>
This does not take any user details into account when sorting.  It sorts by the order channels join the current server, with new channels being added to the right-hand end.
* Sort by Name<br/>
Sorts by the name someone has chosen in their profile.

> * Sort by Instrument / City

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Sort by Instrument / City<br/>
```

Sorts by the instrument or city someone has in their profile, along with their name.
* Sort by Group<br/>

> Where the fader group feature is in use, this sorts in ascending group number from left to right (and within that, by name), with all ungrouped channel off to the right.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Where the fader group feature is in use, this sorts in ascending group number from left to right (and within that, by name), with any ungrouped channels off to the right.
```

* Sort by Server Channel<br/>

> Where Jamulus channel controls (fader, mute, solo, etc) are being controlled by MIDI (see [Using --ctrlmidich for MIDI controllers](Tips-Tricks-More#using-ctrlmidich-for-midi-controllers)), this sorts by the server-assigned channel number to help ensure a stable sort order that aligns with MIDI hardware controls.

Reviewer: Beyond fader, pan, mute, and solo, what does etc. cover?

Reviewer 2: Just "Mute myself", I think.

### Audio channels

> Selects the number of audio channels to be used for communication between Client and server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Selects the number of audio channels to be used for communication between Client and Server.
```

### Feedback Protection

Attempts to detect audio feedback loops or loud noise in the first three seconds after you connected to a server. Once detected, this feature will show a message and activate the "Mute Myself" button to mute you in your own mix. 
Attempts to detect audio feedback loops or loud noise in the first three seconds after you connected to a server. Once detected, this feature will show a message and activate the "Mute Myself" button to mute you in your own mix.

### Input Balance

Controls the relative levels of the left and right local audio channels. For a mono signal
it acts as a pan between the two channels. For example, if a microphone is connected to the right input channel and
an instrument is connected to the left input channel which is much louder than the microphone, move the audio fader to increase the relative volume of the mic.

> # Menu commands

Author: Moved to be a subsection of "Main Window" (as it's the main window menu, not some other window menu).

{% include_relative Include-Backing-Up.md %}
* You can save and load different mixer settings using [Load/Save Mixer Channels Setup](Software-Manual#file--loadsave-mixer-channels-setup) and store those files wherever you want.

> **Note for macOS users:** As of Jamulus 3.8.1, we have a signed installer. This will store the settings in

Reviewer 3: Probably we should get rid of the as of ... part.

Author: Yep, not here though.  Just cleaning up trailing spaces.

Author: Raised https://github.com/jamulussoftware/jamuluswebsite/issues/1062 for this.
